.TH tip-notes "Aug 15 2020" "1" "" ""
.SH NAME
tip-notes - a terminal based note taking application

.SH SYNOPSIS

.PP 
.nf 
configuration:
  tip --init | --reset | --config

backup:
  tip --backup [--all | --config-only | --notes-only]

list:
  tip [GROUP]

view:
  tip [GROUP/]NOTE

find:
  tip --find [GROUP] PATTERN
  tip --find-content [GROUP] PATTERN

delete:
  tip --delete [GROUP/]NOTE

add/edit:
  tip --edit [GROUP/]NOTE

uninstall:
  tip --remove | --purge
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tip-notes is a terminal note taking application. It is used to track plain
text notes in an easy and fast way. Notes can be managed by tip-notes built
in routines or trough any file browser and plain text editor as well.
.PP
Notes can be kept either in a hidden or visible folder. User can tweak
tip-notes, trough editing it's configuration file, where among other
possibilities, is possible to choose his preferred editor, backup location,
enable or disable deletion confirmations.
.PP
User can also take advantage from shell autocomplete feature to easily access
his notes. Simple but useful routines allows user to find notes by name and
also by note's content limiting or not the search by a group of notes
.PP
Notes can be grouped in a tree structure simply putting them in subfolders
that can be freely rearranged by user at any moment, without any additional
effort.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
tip-notes accepts the following options:
.nf

 \-\-authors                           output authors information

 \-b, \-\-backup [OPTION]               if no [OPTION] backup information according to tiprc setup
     \-\-all                           backups configurations and notes
     \-\-config-only                   backups configurations only
     \-\-notes-only                    backups notes only

 \-\-config                            edit tiprc file (configuration file)

 \-d, \-\-delete [GROUP/]NOTE           delete NOTE

 \-e, \-\-edit [GROUP/]NOTE             edit NOTE

 \-f, \-\-find [GROUP] PATTERN          find PATTERN in note's names. (Pass a GROUP to limit search)
 \-F, \-\-find-content [GROUP] PATTERN  find PATTERN in note's contents. (Pass a GROUP to limit search)

 \-h, \-\-help                          shows basic help and usage

 \-\-purge                             uninstall tip-notes and remove configuration folder.
                                     If tip-notes has been installed using system package manager
                                     purge process will be aborted

 \-\-init                              creates the configuration file if it does not exist

 \-\-reset                             restore configuration file to it's default

 \-\-remove                            uninstall tip-notes preserving configuration folder. If tip-notes
                                     has been installed using system package manager, remove process
                                     will be aborted

 \-\-version                           output version information and exit.
.fi

.SH FILES
.nf
\fB/$HOME/.config/tip-notes/tiprc\fP                configuration file
\fB/$HOME/.tip-notes\fP                             default notes folder (can be modified by user)
\fB/$HOME/tip-notes-backup\fP                       default backup folder (can be modified by user)
\fB/etc/bash_completion.d/tip-autocomplete\fP       autocompletion file
\fB/usr/lib/tip-notes\fP                            binaries folder
\fB/usr/local/bin/tip\fP                            link to main script
\fB/usr/local/man/man1/tip.1.gz\fP                  manual file
\fB/usr/share/doc/tip-notes/copyright\fP            machine readable copyright file
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
tip-notes is a project initially developed by S. Falcão.
Contributors are welcome and their names can be found with:

\fBtip --authors\fP
.fi


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
\fBtip\fP                        list all notes
\fBtip\ <GROUP>\fP                list all notes within the <group>

\fBtip\ <my-note>\fP              show <my-note> content
\fBtip\ <group>/<my-note>\fP      show <group>/<my-note> content (as many nested groups as user desire are allowed)

\fBtip\ \-e\ <my-note>\fP           edit/add <my-note> using text editor
\fBtip\ \-e\ <GROUP>/<my-note>\fP   edit/add <group>/<my-note> using text editor

\fBtip\ \-d\ <my-note>\fP           delete <my-note>
\fBtip\ \-d\ <GROUP>/<my-note>\fP   delete <group>/<my-note> (if <my-note> deletion makes <group> empty, then <group> is also removed)

\fBtip\ \-f\ <text>\fP              find all notes which name contains <text> 
\fBtip\ \-f\ <GROUP> <text>\fP      find notes which name contains <text> limiting search to <group>

\fBtip\ \-F\ <text>\fP              find all notes which contains <text> inside the note
\fBtip\ \-F\ <GROUP> <text>\fP      find notes which contains <text> inside the note limiting search to <group>

\fBtip\ \-\-config\fP               edit tiprc config file using text editor

\fBtip\ \-\-reset\fP                reset tiprc config file to it's defaults

\fBtip\ \-b \-\-all\fP               backups notes and configurations folders
.fi

.SH "BUGS"
.nF
There are not known BUGS so far

Please report any trough GITHUB project's page. Add as many relevant information as possible!
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tip\ \-\-help
